Welcome to JW Broadcasting for January 2023.
On October 1st, 2022, the Watchtower Bible and Track Society of Pennsylvania held its annual meeting.
One of the most exciting events on our Theocratic calendar.
We are delighted to share this special meeting with all of you.
Please enjoy part one of this beautiful program.
It's our pleasure to welcome all of you to the annual meeting of the Watchtower Bible and Track Society of Pennsylvania.
Well, it's been a hard year, very hard for many.
Some are mourning the loss of loved ones.
Others are concerned about the health of family members, or maybe their own health.
Still others have lost everything they own in a fire, a flood, or hurricane.
And when you lose your home in a natural disaster, usually you lose your job too.
If your home has been affected, your place of work is affected.
And so many of these folks won't have any way to get their home back because they have no job.
So it's been a tough year.
But all of us need encouragement.
And so it's our prayer that by the end of this program, you're going to feel encouraged, spiritually built up, and absolutely convinced that no matter what has happened or what is going to happen, Jehovah is going to help you through.
He's going to take care of you.
Now the program is going to feature a number of videos interspersed with talks from various members of the governing body.
I don't know what they're going to talk about, but they certainly have chosen some interesting themes.
I'm going to be on the edge of my seat to see what they have to tell us.
But first up is a video of one of our favorite subjects, Caleb and Sophia.
Now just so you know, Caleb is not a member of the governing body, but he's going to be on the program anyway.
Now this is the longer version. They call it the epic version.
It's part of the series, become Jehovah's friend.
And the title is, who should be my friend?
Let's watch.
You've got this phone.
Go, go, go.
Yes.
Bro, that was good.
His friends.
When we see throughout the gospel accounts, the those who chose to be a friend to Jesus, gain the best friend possible.
Oh, you like to draw?
I like your notes.
Really cool.
Mom taught me.
Thanks for telling me to remember.
Me too.
So, looks like we have a talk together.
Yeah.
I'll get in touch to practice soon.
Lydia, we're leaving.
Well, I got to go. See you later, Sophia.
Hey, bro.
Hey, good to see you.
I'm glad I was on your team.
My favorite thing was the Safari Treehouse.
Yeah, it had all the cool jungle animals on the wall.
To me, I didn't think your team was going to make it.
I love my prize.
You got a prize?
We all did.
Okay, kids, settle down.
Time to get started.
We have a lot to talk about today.
Before we begin, for those of you that participated in the Science Club this weekend,
we will be having another camping trip.
But only the ones with the highest score on the math project will be selected to go.
More on that after class.
Sophia, we need you in our club.
You're good at science.
We have another trip coming up.
All the kids had badges and prizes and stuff.
And it sounded like a lot of fun.
And it seems like they really need my help.
Hmm, I see.
Oh, you see what's wrong with the car?
No, I wish.
No, I see why you wanted to be in the club.
You do?
Of course.
We all want to have friends and do fun things.
Please, would you mind moving the light over here?
Uh, right there.
Thank you.
I just wish I had some kid friends.
Hmm.
Jehovah wants you and me to have friends.
But the question you need to ask yourself is,
who should be my friend?
Let's talk about it at our next family worship.
How about you go do some research on Martha?
And I will talk Caleb too.
And then we can come back together and talk about it as a family.
Sophia, are you ready?
Yeah.
Martha, a Jewish, a sister of Lazarus, and Mary.
They lived in Bethany.
A village about two miles away from Jerusalem.
Which was probably Jesus' home base when he came down from Galilee.
I feel like to cook.
Yes, she did.
And she would cook for Jesus and all his disciples when they would visit.
That would have been a lot of food.
Yes.
And a lot of work.
But if they work together, they make it a success.
However, some of their friends felt differently about Jesus.
Martha makes the best apricot cakes.
It's just a fact.
You've always praised me too much, Talia.
Well, if it gets me more apricot cakes, I will continue to praise you.
Oh, Talia, did you hear the teacher Jesus?
He's coming back to visit.
The man from Galilee, are you hosting him again?
Yes, I am.
Actually, it's tonight.
I've heard a lot of talk.
The Pharisees in Jerusalem, they don't approve of that man.
I am not sure it's such a good idea for you to be known as his friend.
Okay, well, I guess I better be getting home.
See you too later.
Martha, Jesus is here.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
Let me get this straight.
He wanted you and Mary to sit and learn about God just like the men.
The teacher instructing women a woman's job is to provide food for her household.
That's true.
A good woman prepares herself for hard work.
That's valuable.
That's you, Martha.
Don't let this Jesus ruin you with his ideas.
Lazarus, I know you.
How is he doing?
Not well.
I sent word to Jesus.
He will help my brother.
You sent word to Jesus?
Have you still not heard?
He's angering people with his shocking speech.
He's claiming to be God's son.
He's crazy.
He's loyal to Jehovah, and he is our friend.
Sadly, Lazarus died.
But do you remember what happened next?
Jesus came back to Bethany and was erected Lazarus.
Jesus was a real friend.
He cared about Martha, Mary, and Lazarus.
And he showed them what kind of friend Jehovah can be to us.
But that's not where this story ends.
Do you know what some people did after that?
Many of the Jews who saw what he did put faith in him.
But some of them went off to the Pharisees
and told them what Jesus had done.
Why did they do that?
Because not even seeing Jesus bring someone back to life
was enough to convince them that he was the Christ.
They seemed like Martha's friends, but they hated Jesus.
How do you think Martha dealt with her unbelieving friends?
Jesus is the Christ, the resurrection, and the life.
He is the son of God.
And he is my friend, Talia.
You've been kind to me in the past.
But you don't believe Jesus' teachings.
We cannot be friends.
Martha stuck with Jesus and his friends.
They helped her become Jehovah's friend.
So Sophia, what do you think Jehovah's teaching you?
About friendship.
That I have to choose my friends carefully.
And how can you know if someone should be your friend?
If they help me be Jehovah's friend,
I'm not going to join the club.
That's my girl.
We are so proud of you, Sophia.
And Jehovah is proud of you, too.
Now, how about you go finish up your homework?
Mom tells me we have a guest coming over.
Okay.
Jehovah, please help me find a good friend.
Someone who loves you.
At least you are my friend.
I talk.
Do you like turtles?
I love turtles.
I've got something I want to show you.
It is so cute.
You know, Sophia, I think we're going to be friends.
Yep, definitely friends.
Admit it.
You enjoy watching Caleb and Sophia
just as much as the kids do.
And we know because we get ladders from adults.
Now we're going to enjoy the first of the talks
by members of the governing body.
And this one will be delivered by Brother Garrett Lurch.
He has a very interesting theme,
supported by the pillar of truth.
Brother Lurch, please.
Is the following statement true or false?
Truth is relative.
That statement is not relatively but absolutely false.
Something is truth for one person
but not truth for another person.
Many religious organizations claim to have the truth.
However, between them there are many contradicting teachings.
Is this just another evidence that
all truth is relative?
That there is no absolute truth?
No.
The truth is that truth is not relative.
It is absolute.
Those who say truth is relative
are not only relatively but absolutely wrong.
The Hebrew word for truth,
Amit, is often rendered truth
and may designate what is firm, trustworthy, stable or faithful.
The Greek word for truth,
Alatia, originates with the word meaning not concealed.
So the truth often involves the revealing of that which was formally hidden.
Jesus said according to Luke 12 verse 2,
But there is nothing carefully concealed that will not be revealed
and nothing secret that will not become known.
There are over 70 places in the Gospel accounts
where Jesus is said to have used the unique expression
to emphasize the truthfulness of his words.
He would often say amen to introduce a sentence.
The corresponding Hebrew word meant certain truth.
Lost the new international dictionary of New Testament theology,
quote,
By introducing his words with amen,
Jesus labeled them as certain and reliable.
He stood by them and made them binding on himself and his hearers.
The new international dictionary of New Testament theology,
Volume 3, page 901 says,
quote,
Many people try to unmask everything in the belief that no one and nothing can genuinely lay claim to truth.
Truth can indeed be found.
We need to display a humble submission to truth whenever and wherever it emerges.
Such openness to truth is required of those who worship the God of truth.
Reference for truth ensures honesty in a man's dealings with his neighbor,
both in word and deed.
This is the attitude to which both the Old Testament and the New Testament bear witness.
End of quote.
Does the truth ever change?
That question was raised by the R. Ruggiero in his book The Art of Thinking.
His answer is no, to quote him.
It may sometimes seem to that it changes, but on closer inspection it will be found not to.
Yes, the truth never changes.
Consider, he says, the case of the authorship of the first book of the Bible, The Book of Genesis.
For centuries, Christians and Jews alike believed that the book had a single author.
In time, this view was challenged and eventually replaced by the belief that as many as five authors contributed to Genesis.
Then, in 1981, the results of a five-year linguistic analysis of Genesis were published,
stating that there is an 82% probability of single authorship as originally thought.
Has the truth about the authorship of Genesis changed?
No, only our belief has changed. End of quote.
He also wrote, the truth will not be changed by our knowledge or by our ignorance.
And we agree.
In fact, no one really believes that there is no truth when it comes to physical realities such as medicine, mathematics, or the laws of physics.
All people believe that some things are true.
Who of us would dare to write in an airplane if we didn't believe that the laws of aerodynamics were absolute truth?
Very viable truth to exist. They surround us and we stake our lives on them.
Does the truth ever change?
It does not.
Our understanding of truth changes as we progress in understanding it, but the truth never changes.
When Jesus said that our purpose in life was to talk about the truth,
He was speaking of something that faithful Jews had valued for centuries.
In their sacred writings, the Jews had long read of truth as something concrete, not theoretical.
In the Bible, truth translates the Hebrew word emith, which signifies that which is firm, solid, and perhaps most of all reliable.
End of quote.
The Jews had good reason for viewing truth in that way. They called their God, Jehovah, the God of truth.
This was because everything Jehovah said he would do, he did.
When he made promises, he kept them. When he inspired prophecies, they were fulfilled.
When he uttered final judgments, they were carried out.
Millions of Israelites had been eyewitnesses of these realities.
The inspired writers of the Bible recorded them as indisputable facts of history.
Unlike other books viewed as sacred, the Bible is not set against a backdrop of myth or legend.
It is firmly grounded in verifiable facts, historical, archaeological, and scientific.
And sociological also realities.
No wonder the Psalmist says to Jehovah, you are law is truth.
All your commandments are truth. The very essence of your word is truth.
Since Jehovah God is the author of the Bible, the Bible is truth.
Jesus Christ echoed the words of that Psalm when he said in prayer to Jehovah, you are word is truth.
Jesus knew that everything his father spoke was absolutely firm and reliable.
Likewise, Jesus himself was full of truth.
Yes, Jesus was even the personification of truth.
The Mosaic Law was truth. But it was not the full truth.
Jesus taught something different from the Mosaic Law.
The Bible shows that the Mosaic Law was a shadow or prophetic picture of greater realities which came through Christ.
And so the Mosaic Law was not the full truth but a pattern of it.
Jesus was not the shadow but the reality.
He said in John 146, I am the truth.
But as far as teachings are concerned, what is truth?
What helps us to understand it?
The Bible speaks of the spirit of the truth.
What is the spirit of the truth?
It is the spirit that proceeds from Jehovah God. It is pure and holy.
Jesus told His disciples at John 16, 12 and 13.
I still have many things to say to you but you are not able to bear them now.
However, when that one comes, the spirit of the truth,
He will guide you into all the truth,
for He will not speak of His own initiative,
but what He hears, He will speak.
And He will declare to you the things to come.
God's Spirit would teach them everything they needed to know to carry out their work,
recalling and opening up their understanding, things that previously they heard from Jesus
but had not understood.
God's Spirit would also declare to them the things coming,
including the bringing to light the significance of Jesus' death and resurrection,
as these events were then yet future and were among the things
that His disciples did not understand in the beginning.
Brother Charles Teiz Russell wrote the book, The Divine Plan of the Ages.
It was published in 1886.
It included a discussion on the Bible as a divine revelation,
viewed in the light of reason.
It said, the depth and power and wisdom and scope of the Bible's testimony
convince us that not man but Almighty God is the author
to appreciate the truth more to what can we compare the truth.
Truth is like a mirror that helps us to see the facts
and if necessary to improve our looks.
Truth is like a pillar, firm and supportive,
and it helps to combat false teachings.
Truth is also compared to a girdle or a belt that warriors used.
It helps us to continue with right conduct.
Truth is like a rainbow for beauty.
Truth is as beautiful as the song of the Nightingale.
Truth is like a romantic bonfire for warmth on the cold evening.
Here's an illustration that many of you will like.
Truth is like the first cup of coffee in the morning, invigorating somebody.
Yes, truth is invigorating.
Truth is like a magnet drawing honest-hearted ones to God.
Truth is like an oasis in the desert.
Truth is like an anchor in the stormy seas.
Truth is like a lifeboat on a sinking ship.
Truth is like a lighthouse in the night guiding a boat safely to the shore or harbor.
Truth is like a compass showing sailors the way.
But it is also like a compass showing the way out of a jungle to a safe area.
Truth is like the rising sun bathing landscape in warm light.
Truth is like the display of fireworks for beauty.
Truth is like the magnetic shield around the earth protecting it from deathly cosmic radiation.
Truth is like light.
The fruit of light consists in every sort of truth.
He that does what is true comes to the light, the Bible says.
Imagine you were born blind and received eyesight through an operation.
Wouldn't you be elated?
Truth is like that when somebody comes to know and appreciate it.
Truth is like a beautiful music played solo or by an orchestra.
Truth is like the most delicious food for taste and gives strength.
Truth is what a nursing mother is to her baby.
Truth is like a hidden treasure.
We need to dig for it.
Truth is like refreshing water on a hot day.
Truth is like a mighty river.
If you try to stop it with a dam, it will overflow the dam.
Nobody can stop the truth.
Why?
Because Jehovah the Almighty is backing it up.
Truth is like a flower or even a bouquet of beautiful little flowers.
Brother Russell once wrote, quote,
Truth, like a modest little flower in the wilderness of life,
is surrounded and almost joked by the luxurious growth of the weeds of error.
If you would find it, you must be ever on the lookout.
If you would see its beauty, you must brush aside the weeds of error and the brambles of bigotry.
If you would possess it, you must stoop to get it.
But not content with one flower of truth had one being sufficient.
There would have been no more.
Gather ever sick for more.
Truth is like a fragrance or perfume.
Truth is like a sparkling diamond.
Do you love diamonds?
But the truth value is so much more than diamonds because it brings Jehovah's friendship and leads to everlasting life.
Truth is compared to a way on which we walk.
Second Peter 2 speaks of the way of the truth.
God is a spirit and those who worship Him must do so with spirit and truth.
Now is the time to study the truth and attend Christian meetings where the truth is taught.
Do not miss congregation meetings.
First Timothy 315 compares the congregation with a pillar of truth.
The congregation preserves the purity of the truth and upholds it.
Truth Jehovah teaches us through the Bible but also through Christian meetings.
We are also to speak the truth by preaching.
We speak the truth also with one another.
We have the truth on our lips.
We have the truth around our hips.
Ephesians 614 says,
We have the belt of truth fastened around our waist.
The truth is in utter, the world is in utter confusion.
What a blessing it is to know the truth.
We rejoice in it.
We are ready to preach the truth and teach the truth.
Yes, we talk the truth and we walk in the truth.
In 3 John 3 we read,
Go on walking in the truth.
Those who walk in the truth now will walk forever.
Micah 4.5 says,
For all the peoples will walk each one in the name of its God.
But we will walk in the name of Jehovah our God forever and ever.
And that is a long time.
Help your students to love the truth and to lift the truth.
But if necessary to be willing to die for the truth and for Jehovah.
The truth is invincible and we will conquer this wicked world.
Maybe all including our relatives and your Bible students
have the determination to walk in the truth and talk about the truth.
Why shall we do this?
Because we love the truth and we love the God of truth.
We are also to lift the truth by our Christian conduct.
Brothers, this is the truth.
His word is truth.
Keep talking the truth and keep walking in the truth.
Then you will walk forever and praise our loving God of truth.
Thank you for that absorbing presentation, Garrett.
We really appreciated it.
At this time, let's listen as brother Jeffrey Jackson speaks to us on the theme,
Be alert, be decisive.
We are living in the last of the last days.
That means soon we are going to face events that will test our integrity as never before.
Yes, now is the time that we need to be alert and decisive.
Now that's a similar situation to what our brothers found themselves in in the first century.
Yes, they had some traumatic events that faced them.
What were some of the events that early Christians had to deal with?
And how did Jesus prepare them to face those events?
And what does it mean for us today?
Well, first of all, I'd like you to imagine this scene.
We'll go back in time to nice and 933 CE.
Do you remember what happened on that day?
Jesus was mounted on a donkey.
And in your mind, can you visualize, you're with Jesus,
as he starts to go down the area from the Mount of Olives and the Kidron Valley,
looking up towards the city of Jerusalem, what happens?
The crowds start together.
More and more people.
People start throwing the garments on the road.
Others cut down branches and wave them around.
They call out, blessed is the one who comes in Jehovah's name.
The whole city is an uproar.
How exciting that would have been.
And yet, at that exciting moment in his life,
Jesus started sobbing and crying.
Why?
Let's turn to the record in Luke chapter 19.
Luke 19 and verses 41 through 44.
And here the inspired account tells us that when Jesus got nearby,
He viewed the city and wept over it, saying,
if you, even you had discerned on this day,
the things having to do with peace.
But now they have been hidden from your eyes.
Because the days will come upon you when your enemies will build around
you a fortification of pointed states,
and will encircle you and besiege you from every side.
They will dash you and your children within you to the ground.
And they will not leave us stone upon us stone in you,
because you did not discern the time of your being inspected.
What do we see from these verses?
Do we see the compassion Jesus had for those who would be killed
when Jerusalem was to be destroyed?
Yes, he was envisioning the destruction that would occur in the year 70 CE.
He was moved by the emotions of that,
so much so that he cried loudly,
not silently like he did when he was about to resurrect Lazarus,
but audibly, loudly.
Now, what do we learn from this?
Well, for a start we can see Jehovah's love for people as reflected in Jesus.
Jesus was very distraught,
thinking about what would happen to that city and its inhabitants.
And then in verse 44,
what was the other thing that Jesus was distressed about?
That that was a time of judgment we might say or inspection.
Yes, even though Jesus was thinking ahead to the future events,
he realized that they were missing the opportunity at that time to do something,
things that they needed to do to prepare for the future.
There's something else that we learn too.
Not only do we learn from the compassion that Jesus displayed,
which we should likewise display when we think about what's going to happen to this wicked world,
but also if Jesus had so much emotion and feeling about wicked people who are about to be destroyed,
how do you think he felt about his followers?
Do you think he wanted to prepare them? Of course.
And that's why we're not surprised.
Two days later, why he took a side, his apostles,
and gave them some instructions.
Let's turn it to the record in Luke chapter 21 and verses 20 through 22.
Jesus is recorded as saying,
however, when you see Jerusalem surrounded by encamped armies,
now in this case, he's referring to 66 CE,
then know that the desolating of her has drawn near.
Then let those in Judea begin fleeing to the mountains.
Let those in the midst of her, that's in the midst of Jerusalem, leave.
And let those in the countryside not enter into her or enter into Jerusalem,
because these are days for meeting out justice in order that all the things written may be fulfilled.
Did you notice that there were three groups of his followers that he was referring to?
He spoke about those who lived in Judea,
so that wasn't just Jerusalem, that was the surrounding area,
so they were told, get out of there, flee, go to the mountains.
Then he spoke to those who would be living in Jerusalem, and what did he say?
Leave the city.
And then the third group, those who would live in the countryside,
we know many people were farmers, and they lived in open areas doing agriculture.
Normally what would be expected is if armies would come to a certain area,
these people would flee into the fortified city.
So what Jesus told them to do was the opposite.
So no matter where his followers would be,
whether in the countryside, in the city, or in the general area,
what was the common denominator?
Don't flee to the city.
Don't put your trust in Jerusalem.
Yes, Jesus was telling them what they needed to know before the events would occur.
Now, what really was the lesson that Jesus was impressing on these ones?
Well, although those he was speaking to at that time were Jewish,
they had to realize that Jerusalem was no longer the earthly seed of Jehovah's Kingdom.
They had to also realize that the temple was no longer the center of Jehovah's worship.
So Christians had to get those facts clearly in mind,
make their decisions at that time prior to the events that would come later.
Now, maybe we could illustrate it in a modern sense.
Many of us have had to face the issue with regard to blood transfusions.
When do you need to make your decision with regard to that?
Is it when you're in the ambulance, semi-conscious, in pain?
Is it like, oh, lend me the DPA.
Can you read the fine print?
Or is it when you get into the emergency operating room?
And you start arguing with people and asking questions?
No.
We realize that now is the time that we need to make our decisions.
Then we need to live by those decisions.
And then if an emergency should occur, we'll be ready for that situation.
That was the lesson Jesus was teaching them.
Yes, the Christians back in the first century had to read themselves of any feelings of nationalist pride.
Any feelings that Jerusalem was the city.
Otherwise, they would make the wrong decision.
This was especially true in the year 66 CE.
What happened in that year?
Well, let's consider a brief overview.
Most of us are familiar with what happened toward the end of 66 CE.
At that time, the Roman army under the leadership of Sestius Gallus attacked Jerusalem.
But unexpectedly, they retreated.
Allowing time for Christians in the city to flee Jerusalem.
Was that the only thing that happened in the year 66 CE?
No.
Let's look back in time to see what other events took place.
This will help us understand why Christians needed to be alert and decisive beforehand.
First, let's think about the background.
The Jewish nation was fed up with Roman taxation and corruption way back in Jesus' day.
But by the beginning of 66 CE, the situation was even worse.
The Roman governor of Judea, Jesseus Flores, was totally corrupt and was notorious for his cruelty.
The spirit of rebellion was everywhere.
Judea was a powder keg ready to explode.
Around the spring of 66 CE, Flores planted the temple treasury in Jerusalem stealing some 17 talents.
This caused the revolt among the Jews.
In retaliation, Flores ordered his soldiers to attack the rebels and allowed his soldiers to plunder hundreds of homes and to kill some 3,600 Jews.
However, the Roman assault was repelled and Flores and his men retreated from the city.
If you were there at that time, how would you have reacted?
Would you have been outraged by Flores' action?
If you lived in the countryside, would you think the Romans may return and now is the time to flee to Jerusalem?
Christians needed to be alert and decisive.
Remember, Jerusalem was not important to Christians.
It was not the place of safety.
What happened next?
Eleazar, the son of High Priest Ananias, gained control of the temple area.
He suspended the sacrifices offered to the emperor and then drove the remaining Romans out of the upper part of the city.
If you were there, would you have been proud?
Happy that the corrupt Romans were forced to leave?
Remember though, Jerusalem was not important to Christians.
It was not the place of safety.
Christians needed to be alert and decisive and not distracted.
Then around July, August, many of him, the leader of another Jewish faction,
overran the Roman fortress of Masada and seized Roman weapons from there.
He then returned to Jerusalem and captured the tower or fortress of Antonia.
They set fire to Herod's palace, the palaces of a gripper and Bernice, as well as High Priest Ananias' home.
Then they ordered the murder of High Priest Ananias and his brother Hezekiah.
Following that, they returned to the fortress of Antonia and massacred the garrison of Roman soldiers still there.
The city was divided and in uproar.
Do you see how easy it would have been to join sides with one of the factions?
Remember though, these events were not important to Christians.
They needed to be alert and decisive and not distracted.
Finally around November, Sestia's garrison, the governor of Syria, marched with his troops and camped about six miles from Jerusalem.
Even though it was the Sabbath day, the Jewish rebels screamed out of the city and made a hasty assault on the Romans.
The Romans retreated to Beth horn and the Jews captured Roman supplies and weapons.
A gripper sent two representatives, his personal friends, to the Jewish rebels, to persuade them to lay down their weapons and to promise them clemacy.
But the rebels killed one of the men and wounded the other.
Sestia pursued the rebels to Jerusalem, camped at Mount Scopus for three days and then started to undermine the city wall and tried to set fire to the gate of the temple.
But then, for some unexpected reason, Gallus and his army retreated.
Alert Christians in Jerusalem and Judea immediately acted decisively and fled.
The rebels chased the Roman army, inflicting considerable losses in both men and supplies.
And Gallus ordered his soldiers to retreat.
After seven days, the Jewish rebels gave up chasing the Romans and pillaged the supplies left behind.
They returned to Jerusalem after eight days.
What was the situation in Jerusalem at that time?
Josephus says, in the face of the exhilaration which now sees Jerusalem, the spokesmen for peace with Rome were obliged to remain silent.
Even those opposed the war were swept along by the force of the circumstances.
Those who supported Rome left.
All the rest were won over to the side of the rebels partly by force, partly by persuasion.
If you were there, what would you have done?
Many Jews started to flee to Jerusalem seeking refuge there.
But was it a safe refuge?
No.
There was anarchy in the city, several Jewish political factions fought each other.
Eventually in 70 CE, Jerusalem was destroyed along with its temple.
But the Christians who were alert and decisive were safe, far away in Pella, on the other side of the Jordan River.
What do we learn from this brief review of the events of 66 CE?
It wasn't just one event, wasn't, but a series of events.
Were you amazed at how many events occurred in 66 CE?
And that was just a brief summary.
There were many divisive political and religious issues that could have been distracting to Christians.
So those Christians needed to remain focused on their hope.
They needed to remember that Jerusalem and its temple gave no security for them.
Why should we be so interested in all of this today?
Notice what else Jesus said as recorded at Luke chapter 21 verses 34 through 36.
But pay attention to yourselves, that your hearts never become weighed down
with of reading and heavy drinking and anxieties of life, and suddenly that they be instantly upon you as a snare.
For it will come upon all those dwelling on the face of the whole earth.
Keep awake then, all the time making supplication, that you may succeed in escaping all these things that must occur
and in standing before the Son of Man.
Jesus said that these things would occur on the face of the whole earth.
That means he wasn't just talking about Christians in the first century.
He was talking about us today.
Yes, we need to pay attention and be alert.
He also reminded us to make supplication, yes, to strengthen our relationship with Jehovah.
What does this mean for us today?
As we face the great tribulation brothers and sisters,
we don't know exactly all the details of what will happen.
But we do know that Jesus did not mean that we would have to flee one literal city
or go to a certain mountain range.
How could we?
We're scattered over the whole face of the earth.
But we do need to remember the same things that the first century Christians needed to remember.
Don't put out trust in the religious and political systems of Satan's world.
Why is this so vital?
Just as in 66 CE, today we see one event after another leading up to the final day.
Everywhere, there is evidence of political instability and infighting.
Not only among nations, but also within nations.
Religious political and social issues, including abortion and homosexuality, have become divisive topics.
Scientific issues, such as global warming, have also become political issues.
Just as in the first century, we must take to heart Jesus' warning.
Don't take sides in the chaos that's happening all around us.
Yes, keep your focus on the kingdom of hope.
Remember, soon we will face events that will test our integrity as never before.
So what are the takeaway points?
Well, first of all, we realize that now is the time we need to make decisions and stick to those decisions.
Yes, we need to be absolutely determined not to put our faith and trust in worldly politics.
We need to remain neutral, always thinking of God's kingdom.
We also need to remember that it's not just one event coming up in the future.
There can be a series of events all happening at the same time.
There could be distracting.
But if we have made up our decision now, we'll be ready for that time.
And also, we remember the need to keep our relationship strong with Jehovah God.
And we remember the compassion of Jesus.
So Jehovah and Jesus want us to be protected at that time.
So may we be determined to continue to be alert and decisive.
Well, that was really interesting, wasn't it?
A lot of work went into that video, but I'm sure glad we saw it.
It certainly brought everything home to us.
Well, the brothers in Ukraine have been in our prayers.
And as we know, many fled the country because of the war.
Some of them, when they fled, they just had the clothes on their back
or just a little bit more than that.
So the question is, how were they cared for in their new country?
Well, this next video, just a short one, is going to tell us about the love
that was shown to our brothers in neighboring countries
and the tremendous amount of work that was involved in caring for these refugees.
We thought that this might be some kind of pushing between the empires.
But something else happened, the worst case scenario.
We were aware of the fact that we had to prepare for some serious changes.
There were thousands of people at the border.
People had to wait in long queues, several kilometers long.
Almost every day, we received 200 or more refugees,
our brothers and sisters who were seeking refuge in Poland.
It was really touching, since most of them had only one bag.
It was not possible to take more.
The brothers of the coordinators and committee of the governing body
were analyzing with us about how to help and what we could do.
Immediately, the first disaster relief committee was set up.
And when we realized that there was already a need in the whole of Poland,
16 committees started their work.
The number of DC-50 applications of those who wanted to volunteer increased every week by thousands,
indicating that the willingness and readiness to help was huge.
We prepared everything in order to be able to welcome refugees at the border crossings,
at the reception point set up by the authorities on Ukrainian border,
and at other locations where the trains from Ukraine were arriving.
We knew we would have to ask the congregations for accommodations.
At the beginning, we prepared a survey that helped us to organize everything.
We know that it's thanks to Jehovah's backing.
Because in just a few days, we received more than 7,500 replies.
For assembly halls and 22 kingdom halls were temporarily converted to refugee relief centers.
The brothers were traveling for days and needed some basic things,
hygienic products, diapers for children, and many other things.
Not only clothes, but many basic necessities.
They received food, they could warm up, take a shower, and get some rest.
In addition to this, in many places, volunteers prepared rooms for donated garments,
where brothers and sisters could choose clothing.
In some places, brothers prepared special areas for children,
where there were toys, crayons, something to draw on, something to play with,
so that the children could feel busy there.
Doing something helped them to get their minds off what they saw when they were fleeing.
The children expressed their gratitude in their pictures.
Almost everywhere, they wrote,
Thank you.
They drew pictures of paradise, expressions of their hope.
It was so touching.
The circuit overseers, together with the elders, did something absolutely spectacular.
In the beginning, some of these brothers made hundreds of shepherding calls in two or three weeks.
The goal was to deliver 40,000 humanitarian aid boxes.
We were responsible for purchasing food, hygiene products, some first aid items, medical supplies.
We had to find a logistical location where we could store all of this.
Afterward, we had to think about how to pack it, how to deliver it to the border,
and then how to transport it to Ukraine, where at this very moment, the war continued.
It was very nice to observe the volunteers who came to help us pack up the supplies.
When the brothers from all over the country got to know about the need,
they were ready to drive 300 or more kilometers from many hours to devote a couple of hours to packing boxes.
As it turned out later on, it was more or less 190 tons of supplies.
In each package, we also put some drawings made by children.
It was an expression of love in those humanitarian aid boxes.
Having this opportunity to help the brothers, we saw an expression of Jehovah's love and might in all these efforts.
Only Jehovah could prepare his people for such a well-organized and effective activity.
Many of the brothers have commented that the fact that they see so much being done to help the brothers in Ukraine right now
convinces them that if they're in that situation in the future, if they're sometime when they need that love or they need that help,
well, Jehovah's organization is going to be there to help them as well.
Belonging to Jehovah's household, being part of a worldwide family is priceless.
The hatred in the world continues to grow constantly, and there's just more conflict and disunity.
At the same time, the unity and the love of Jehovah's people just keeps on increasing, and it just becomes more and more powerful.
So we want to thank all those who had a share in providing that humanitarian assistance.
A lot of work, a lot of thought, a lot of planning went into that, and it certainly is appreciated.
But now, how did the brothers from Ukraine get to these neighboring countries?
Well, they had some pretty hair-raising experiences.
So the next video is going to recount some of their experiences, and you may need to have a hanky handy.
We thought it might be a truck driving by.
When it happened again, we got up and started reading the news on the internet,
and we found out that there were explosions happening in all the cities.
My mom awoke from her sleep to sirens sounding all over the city.
Of course, we were very anxious and turned on the TV immediately,
but we didn't even have to look for information,
because all the channels were already talking about the fact that war had started.
We just immediately started praying to Jehovah,
calling friends and close ones, and asking how they were,
and waiting for guidance from the brothers.
At 5.30 a.m., a brother from Kyiv called us,
and said that the bombs were landing in Kyiv.
We immediately got up, woke up the children, and told them about the situation,
and we didn't let the children go to school.
We realized that our lives had changed.
We read the daily text, but I want to note that this scripture is well known for us.
It used to be a year text, and of course we knew it,
but at that moment it sounded special.
I mean it was like personal guidance, such a personal answer from Jehovah to everyone,
and I understood what I had to do.
In that day, brothers created a Zoom meeting that ran for the whole day,
and brothers and sisters could connect via Zoom to preach,
talk to each other, and support each other.
We were all together.
Every day it became more difficult.
It became more difficult to deliver food, and the food became more expensive.
People started to panic, which led to panic buying of medicines,
and basic staple products.
Yes, before that, during the pandemic, for two years now,
brothers had been constantly reminding us of the necessity of go-bags.
And then, closer to the war,
reminders also began to come from brothers about not only stocking up on such backpacks,
but also about checking what condition they were in.
And it was also recommended to stock up on food for two months in advance.
When the war started, we were really frightened,
because I was in my ninth month of pregnancy,
and I could go into labor at any moment.
We prayed a lot.
We wanted to work out what to do next,
what the right thing for us to do was.
We weren't sure what was going on, and how it would end.
But when we heard that next to us, they bombed a hospital,
and they bombed a dormitory, we understood.
We had to find a safer place.
It was then that my husband made the decision that we should go.
We couldn't leave because I wasn't able to travel,
even to transport me from one room to the other was a problem.
So the situation really was such that in our case,
it was very difficult to leave,
and it was very hard to stay,
because almost every day the area was being shell.
My dad isn't quite a difficult condition right now.
He is completely blind with poor hearing.
He had a stroke,
and broke his hip a few months ago.
So now he is completely bedridden,
and requires constant care.
Patti's mom is hard of hearing, and she broke her arm.
It is our duty to take care of our parents.
It is a commandment that Jehovah gave,
but we did not know how we could do it in this situation.
When the war started in the first days of it,
my grandfather had a second stroke,
and worries about him were added to the situation.
We had to take care of him,
because he could not eat.
Only my mom, my older brother,
my grandmother and I are Jehovah's Witnesses in our family.
My dad was worried about my safety.
We understood that out of our whole family,
I was the only one you could leave.
Before we left, my husband called an elder from our congregation.
He and his wife were already in the west of Ukraine at the time,
and they gave us a lot of advice.
They gave us advice on how to behave at roadblocks,
that we should hide our phones and not take photos of anything.
They were advising us on which villages to go through,
because there were very big traffic jams at the time,
and people were stopped in some traffic jams for 10 or 12 hours.
There were no lights.
We drove large sections of the road in one go,
constantly praying that we wouldn't get a flat tire,
that the car wouldn't break down,
and that we wouldn't get stuck in a field.
Before each checkpoint, we were so nervous,
because local militia, when drunk,
could be unpredictable,
but since they had weapons,
combat weapons,
we were afraid not only of the invaders,
but the locals as well.
I don't think we ever prayed as much as we did during those hours on the road.
My husband tried to stay as calm as possible,
and reassure me so that I wouldn't worry.
A sister found out that there would be an evacuation train,
and we kind of wanted to get on it,
but we were not sure that we would,
but this time with prayers,
she managed to organize the transportation,
and both our families went.
It was amazing that this train had a special carriage
for people with disabilities,
and we were taken to this carriage,
and the train was even delayed until we sat down.
They were waiting for us.
Before we left, we informed the elders
that we had made up our minds,
and we were going.
The brothers sent us a certain amount of money.
They said,
this is to help you,
and when we boarded the train,
we found out that we had to pay for the train.
Although before that,
all evacuation trains were free,
they told us the amount for the tickets,
and it was exactly the same
as what the brothers had given us.
The only opportunity for me to leave
was by evacuation train.
Usually, a department is designed for four people.
In ours, there were 13 of us.
On the train,
I was traveling with the family for my congregation.
In order to reduce our worries
and switch to something positive,
we decided to take the opportunity
and preach to the people.
We drove for 16 hours,
and we arrived very late.
In Lviv, a group of police approached
and took me to the security service of Ukraine.
Since I have a Russian passport,
I'm essentially like an enemy to them.
I knew that Jehovah was with Dad,
that he would protect him,
and that most likely,
he would not be dragged there to prison
or something like that.
But I was worried that they might simply not let us go further,
and we would stay in Ukraine.
I sat and waited.
I prayed to Jehovah,
and this helped me,
not to focus on my negative thoughts,
but to trust Jehovah completely.
They begin to incite me to say such slogans as,
glory to Ukraine.
I answered,
I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
and we take a neutral position in this war.
We do not support the Russian side,
but I also cannot glorify some other country,
and then he told me to curse Putin.
I said, well, since I am a believer,
I cannot speak swear words,
so I cannot say this either.
And the policeman said, yes, I know your people.
They don't want to defend their homeland.
I replied, well,
if I were a conscript,
I would fight against Ukraine now,
since I am Russian.
He said, well, then save your family.
Go with God, Alexey.
He gave me back my documents,
and wished me a good journey.
We waited at the border for about 17 hours.
The difficulty was that it was very cold.
The car got cold quickly, and there were no toilets.
As it was our turn to be checked,
we spoke to the female border guard,
and explained to her that I could go into labor at any time,
and that I really needed my husband's help.
I couldn't even carry my own bag.
Then she told me that if I wanted,
I could stay in Ukraine,
but there was no way my husband would be allowed to leave.
Our final destination was the city of Helm in Poland,
where we arrived.
And there was an outburst of emotions
when the volunteers quickly brought us to the sisters.
And we saw this JW.org sign.
There were so many emotions.
That is, well,
it took our breath away,
and we just couldn't speak.
And now, indeed,
this was the moment when we understood
that this is it.
We were saved.
When we arrived at the Kingdom Hall,
we were feeling really emotional.
We were very worried and nervous about what was going to happen.
But once we entered the Kingdom Hall,
we were able to calm down.
There were a lot of local brothers and sisters
who greeted us with hugs.
Many even had tears in their eyes
when they saw that I was going to have a baby soon.
At that moment,
we realized that Jehovah and our brotherhood
will take care of us as their own family
and whatever circumstances we find ourselves.
I sat in the Kingdom Hall and didn't know what to plan next.
The elder who was on shift at the Kingdom Hall took time for me
and he encouraged me very much.
He acknowledged everything I had gone through and comforted me,
letting me know that I was now safe.
He assured me that Jehovah is with me,
and will continue to support me,
and that I have no reason to fear.
I remember a moment when I went outside in the evening
in the view of the Carpathian Mountains opened up to me.
The birds were singing.
It strengthened me so much.
I remember the thought where a brother said
that if Jehovah created all this,
won't he help you?
And while later I felt that power on myself
when everything began to resolve so quickly,
I didn't even think that it would resolve that way.
My biggest fear is probably the fear of the unknown,
but now we see that there is nothing to be afraid of.
There was a disaster relief committee that helped to accommodate refugees,
and the sisters working with the committee were looking for routes
and looking for transport, buses, trains, and planes.
We were accommodated with an amazing family.
Where we felt really comfortable.
We felt completely understood.
It is simply incredible.
Of course, Jehovah has accompanied us all these years.
All these years we have been feeling is help.
But now it is just like an avalanche,
an avalanche of miracles, help, and support.
Different brothers and sisters began to visit us straight away,
and each time there was someone new.
And they always brought some bags or boxes.
And for the non-witnesses, it was like a miracle.
And they kept asking,
do you know them? Are these your relatives?
No, we have never seen them before.
Why are they helping you?
Oh, it was such a good witness.
On March 24, exactly a month after the war began.
Danielle and I gave birth to a beautiful baby girl.
It was a great help that a sister who could translate
was present in the delivery room.
This made me feel calmer.
We tried to speak at every possible opportunity,
sending each other text messages,
and communicating via video conferencing.
I sent Danielle videos and photos of our little girl, Mido Slava.
And we constantly reassure each other of our love,
and that we appreciate each other very much.
Feeling forced to move to another country is very difficult.
But thanks to Jehovah, I have become convinced
that his organization really functions as one body.
And I'm very happy to be part of it.
The Brotherhood.
These are the people waiting for you with open arms.
We felt that it was Jehovah who personally helped us.
It is really evident that a lot of refugees from Ukraine
who come here are alone with their problems.
And it is very difficult for them.
How much easier it is for us because we have a friendly brotherhood with us.
And although we are in a foreign country, we feel at home.
All things go to Jehovah.
Well, that was faith strengthening, wasn't it?
No doubt that Jehovah is going to support us in any situation.
So now we're going to give attention to Brother Tony Morris.
Hi, Tony.
Hey.
What was your name again?
And Brother Morris is going to talk to us on the theme.
They will be sensational.
Now, in a moment, it will explain what is going to be sensational.
But first, please open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 6
or find it on your phone or tablet.
Now Paul here in this letter is addressing those with the heavenly hope.
And he makes a point here about two things.
He covers in verse 17 of Hebrews 6,
about the promise and the oath.
So it's impossible for Jehovah to lie.
Verse 18 touches on.
But this is what's connected with this hope for the ones that have the heavenly hope
and by extension, the other sheep.
So it's infallible.
It's going to happen just as he promised.
And Paul, who at least three times experienced shipwreck,
that much renewal, maybe find out there's more later,
but notice what he writes here with a heartful of experience.
In verse 19, we have this hope as an anchor for the soul,
both sure and firm, and it enters in within the curtain, the anchor.
And it's just critical that the other sheep and the anointed
have their anchor in shape.
Now, the watchtower just last year February, 2021,
on page 30 mentioned this profound thought.
An anchor stabilizes a ship during a storm,
and it stops it from drifting onto rocks.
But an anchor is useful only if the chain that attaches to the ship did not break.
So if we lose our faith, we lose our hope.
The watchtower addressed that profound thought to all of God's people.
Now, for now, we're facing what Revelation chapter 21,
in symbolic language, will turn to Revelation 21.
And this is why it's so critical to have that clear about our hope,
being the anchor there in verse 1 of Revelation 21.
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth for the former heaven
and the former earth had passed away.
And notice, and this sea is no more.
Well, the sea is no more.
What are we talking about here?
Well, that means that after Armageddon, there's no more sea.
Well, obviously, that's not literal with the oceans or the seas there.
That's the demon agitated sea of wicked mankind.
Gone. But it's not gone yet.
And just like in literal wars, submarines are used, sneak up on the ships.
Well, Satan's same way, him and his demon horde.
So he's going to use any means he can try to wreck our ship.
It's an individual one I want with Jehovah.
And you know, many of you, I look out see new couples that very close,
love each other. Well, you know, your mate for those of you married,
has to have this kind of relationship with their father, Jehovah.
Everybody does.
You know, unless you're a toddler,
then you're going to be in God's hands.
If your parents are witnesses,
that's a good chance to be okay.
So this is war.
That's the point.
This is war.
And it's not going to get easier.
See, till the sea is no more.
Now, during these times, this war we face stormy seas,
includes a lot of things, loss of material things,
there's all kinds of other storms that come up
and they're connected with the sea of wicked mankind.
But this one here is what we're going to emphasize.
The death of a loved one.
What a storm.
And that is when our anchor is essential as individuals.
That anchor is essential.
Never lose your anchor.
Not saying you're not going to be battered,
and I'm not going to be battered,
but don't lose your anchor.
Jehovah gave it to us,
and Paul made that clear.
Now, a sister wrote in,
and I certainly wouldn't name her.
She may eventually see this program here,
but thought it was worth sharing with us.
But she was honest and humble about it,
but it shows, you know, God's people are imperfect.
I don't know if you noticed that,
but don't say anything, David,
when they come out late.
So her dad died faithful.
Now, here's what she admits.
Before her dad died,
she says that when she saw others shedding tears after
loved ones died, she thought,
why do people cry so much?
They will see them again.
Would that comfort you if you just lost a loved one?
No.
However, her dad died.
Here's what she honestly stated to her credit,
but now I understand.
And she wept shed tears.
Yes, the loss of a loved one can be devastating.
No doubt about his credible storm.
Now to our theme,
they will be sensational.
What is they?
They are family reunions in the new world.
The things that are coming,
oh, go ahead and use your imagination
to hold a won't falter for that.
They're going to be sensational.
They really are.
It's a word for sensationales astonishing.
Another one is astounding.
And it's nice that this is not a fantasy.
This is what's going to happen.
It's a reality.
So let's consider some families in Bible history,
first of all,
and we'll start with Noah.
And he was born in 2970.
B-C-E, 126 years after Adam's death.
So he didn't have any interaction with Adam.
I think he got a blessing there personally.
And when his father, Lane, named him Noah,
you know, that's in scripture,
he said,
this one will bring us comfort from our work
and from the pain of our hands,
resulting from the ground which Jehovah has cursed.
Beautiful expression and boy, Noah lived up to that.
When he lived, he faced and materialized angels.
They left their proper dwelling place
and produced offspring, those hybrid Nephilim.
And the earth became full of violence.
But knowing his family,
they avoided all of that corruption.
So he was fallless. He walked with the true God.
Now, he lived up to what Jehovah expected of him
and find Genesis, if you would please.
And we're going to look at chapter 8, Genesis chapter 8.
Now, I will mention this here in the chapter before 8,
which would be chapter 7.
We do find the point in verse 13.
On that very day Noah went into the ark along with his sons,
Shem, Ham, and Japheth,
and noticed in his wife and the three wives of his sons.
So they went in the ark.
They had all worked around it and everything.
And now we find in chapter 8, verses 16 and 17,
after the flood,
go out of the ark,
you, your wife, your sons, and your sons' wives.
So here we go.
But we know that Shem, Ham, and Japheth,
that's what the scripture said,
we don't know the names of the wife or the sons' wives.
Why?
You're going to ask God,
but I don't see anything in here.
He decided not to have it in her.
Has nothing to do with being worthy.
It's all about the lineage that went through.
And you know, we all know better than, you know,
argue with God.
You know, God, I really love your word,
but you know, a couple of things here.
Not too bright to have that kind of attitude.
So these are beautiful, faithful women.
And here's the point,
during the new world,
my, what a family reunion they're going to have.
And how thrilled you're going to be,
because I'm sure you've got some questions
about what that was like, you know.
And then we don't have much,
while they were on the ark,
how things go, I mean,
you know, a lot of the old timers
hear it, Bethel and other Bethels have so many stories
in there, a pleasure.
Well, get ready.
Whole lot of sensational stories
from sensational family reunions like this one.
See?
Wonderful, wonderful future.
Now in the same Bible book, Genesis,
let's go over to chapter 21.
And,
notice here, there's a different example of a family
that'll enjoy a sensational reunion in the new world.
It highlights the fact that Sarah
became pregnant.
And this is the love of Abraham's life
as far as humans go.
And they bore a son together, Isaac.
And this is just incredible.
You take chapter 22 of Genesis.
Jehovah gives this direction.
And then of you that are fathers,
you're listening.
And you don't have to be a father
that would be touched by this, obviously,
as you love Jehovah and you love Jesus.
But he says in verse 2,
Take please your son, your only son,
whom you so love.
Oh, yeah, he knew.
Oh, Abraham.
Sarah loves Isaac.
And this is remarkable.
He loves him so much.
And what's he tell him to do?
Sacrifice him.
So we don't have all the
or any record of any feelings
that Abraham had during all this.
We get some indication of
something is going on here.
But those of you that have ever had a son or sons,
the impactor is just phenomenal.
He did go all the way
with the knife.
And he'd actually,
in mind and heart,
committed the sacrifice.
But Jehovah, you know,
after he reached out to the knife
and everything's in motion,
Jehovah had the angel call out,
Abraham.
Just in time that
stopped the whole thing.
And Abraham said,
Here I am.
And then he told him in verse 12,
Do not harm the boy.
How did he feel?
Talk about our relief.
And all this time,
before Isaac's wondering,
You know, we get this all set up.
Where's the sheep?
I don't know.
He must have had some interesting conversations
after these events.
Now, you think that they're not going to enjoy
a sensational family reunion?
Oh, my.
And then when they find out,
because they didn't know,
they heard certain things,
Jehovah,
he went all the way
and allowed this sacrifice
with his son.
Ah.
See that pain.
A lot of pain.
It's all a sensational family reunion.
Abraham, Isaac's heir,
and other family members.
Now, another one in scripture.
Let's find Job.
And how well we know and appreciate.
Job so much.
And I'm going to go right there
the first chapter.
And it just helps us to appreciate
in the first chapter here.
Verse 1 talks about this upright man of integrity.
And verse 2 reveals it.
Seven sons and three daughters were born to him.
And then all the livestocks mentioned.
But this is quite interesting.
In verse 4,
chapter 1, each of his sons
would hold a bank with at his house
on his own set day.
What's that all about?
Well, we have the gift of the inside book.
I suppose so many other references
but there's always been a blessed gift.
And the inside stated,
it would seem that Job 7's sons
held a family gathering.
Possibly a spring or harvest festival.
And as the feasting made the week-long circuit,
each son hosted the banquet in his own house.
That's a close family.
They were all there.
Just such a close family
that loved each other.
Just loved each other.
However, we know in the following verses,
the challenge of Satan in heaven
and all that's recorded for us here.
And then it starts.
In verse 13,
sons and daughters are eating there.
And then the message comes to Job
about the cattle,
and Sabine's attacking.
And then, you see,
the wicked one,
when he never said,
he wasn't smart.
Because he verse 16,
fire from God.
So, you know, now they're involved.
They're going to blame God for this.
They're all going to think it was God did this.
Even though he's behind it.
And it falls from there and kills the sheep.
Well, then, verse 18 and 19,
whether it's still speaking,
your sons, your daughters were eating
and drinking wine in their homeless brother's house.
Suddenly a great win came.
Apparently, Job allowed that kind of power in that case.
Kill them all, dead.
Kill them.
So, seven sons and three daughters.
Now, that's history.
Let's go to Job 42,
Job chapter 42,
and see he's been through the test,
and we find here
where it mentions, you know,
after things have passed here,
and Job doubled everything,
and he's just rich again.
Verse 13, he also of 42,
13, he also came to have seven more sons
and three more daughters.
Isn't that, I mean,
just Job was so wonderful,
but see, Job was not finished with him,
because in the new world,
and likely work out the timing,
all 20 children.
Job was away.
Wow.
Sensational family reunion.
Now, more to our day,
did just want to touch on,
just saw it on the website.
September 26, I think.
A wonderful, beautiful story here,
and it's been touched on within a week before,
but this David Mazza's life story,
happy family shattered and rebuilt,
and they talk about David,
or they call them David.
I can't think of, boy,
what a sensational family reunion
they're going to have,
see, during the new world.
So, we know you precious brother
a lot of you are numb of heart,
losing loved ones during these last days,
but please, don't lose heart.
You got your anchor, see.
And then the sister wraps it up
for her dear friend of mine.
My mother and father had 17 children,
just recently she wrote this.
Recently, I lost the last remaining sibling,
leaving me with no siblings at all.
Strangely, I remember where I was
and what I was doing when I lost each of them.
What a blessing it will be
when these dreaded memories will be gone and replaced,
when I see my resurrected mom and dad welcome back,
each child who stored in Jehovah's memory.
She writes, what a grand reunion that will be.
So, as we gradually grow to perfection
with the prospect of living forever.
What a touching expression from our precious sister.
So, the reunion with your loved ones is a certainty.
You will be enjoying your family reunions soon.
Keep your anchor in good shape
till the sea of wicked man kind is no more.
We entreat you focus on the coming,
sensational family reunions.
Well, wasn't that touching?
Really encouraging.
So, we appreciate that very much, Tony.
Now, this time I have an announcement to make
and it concerns the worldwide Bethel family.
The worldwide Bethel family.
Now, as you know, the elders received training
at the school for congregation elders.
But we have a lot of elders at Bethel.
And many of them have a tremendous amount of experience.
But they have a lot of responsibility too.
And many of them are overseers.
They oversee large departments.
So, what do we do to meet their needs?
What about a new course?
A new course for those in oversight positions.
It's called Principles of Divine Oversight,
a school for overseers.
Now, let's let a couple of brothers tell us more about it.
Welcome to the School for Overseers,
Principles of Divine Oversight, Acts 6-3.
I invite you to read with me the verse that is the basis
for this school, Acts 6-3.
So, brothers, select for yourself seven reputable men
from among you full of spirit and wisdom
that we may appoint them over this necessary matter.
Due to the rapid expansion of the work taking place around the world,
there's a pressing need for more loving and effective overseas.
What would you say are the marks of a good overseer?
An overseer's primary job is to take care of people.
He humbly accepts the reality that he does not know everything
or have all the answers.
Don't get stuck in the past.
Be the point of contact for your fellow workers.
A good overseer is all of those,
but he must also follow the divine pattern of oversight.
Training is essential, but how it's done is crucial.
To this end, Principles of Divine Oversight, Acts 6-3,
a school for overseers will help brothers and oversight prepare others
to become loving and effective overseers in the future.
The school is rooted in Bible Principles.
Let's read together the last scripture in Ezekiel chapter 48.
Verse 35 says,
And the name of the city from that day on will be Jehovah is there.
Brothers, when you apply the divine pattern of oversight
by proactively training others and humbly keeping your gates open
to fresh lines of thought,
you can be absolutely sure that Jehovah will reward your sincere efforts.
Yes, divine blessings will not only flow into your department,
but they will cascade throughout your entire branch,
bring refreshment and continue spreading across the world.
And Jehovah's great spiritual city will continue to grow and flourish.
It's a good course.
But we tried it out already on a few Bethelites,
and they appreciated it very much.
So we're sure that this is going to be a real blessing,
not only here in the United States, but in Bethels around the world.
What do you think is left to be revealed?
Part 2 of the annual meeting has more exciting announcements
and we'll watch it in next month's broadcast.
Before we conclude, let's travel to Niger.
Niger stretches from the fertile deltas of the Niger River
to the Grand Sahara Desert.
With such drastic differences between locations,
publishers need to use a variety of preaching methods.
In the capital city of Niamay, they reach commuters walking the busy streets.
In remote desert cities, they seek out merchants
and way through fertile riverbeds to find farmers tending their crops and patties.
While in the desert, many publishers preach wearing a combined turbine in veil
which protects them from the windblown sand.
Tough conditions are made bearable
because the Nigerian people are so hospitable.
There's a common phrase in the local language, Hausa,
that translates to,
your guest is your king.
Many will stop and listen to what our brothers show them from the Bible.
Both young and old in Niger counted a privilege
to announce God's kingdom and to enjoy spiritual food.
It's a pleasure to share with you all the love and greetings of our dear brothers
from the Bobiella, Harobandezarma, and the Aralita congregations.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.